NJTI-4-TYPES-EN

# About
All types use MBTI type-abbreviations to make it easier for people to remember. All type description will consist of one type-specific part, four dichotomy-related parts and two general parts for world-view and temperament. All descriptions are written in the way of describing the readers personality.

# General

## Dichotomies

Two sentences per dichotomy.

### I - Thinker
As a thinker you enjoy to cautiously consider what will happen in the future and avoid making mistakes. You enjoy taking your time to evaluate new things before you try them.

### E - Doer
As a doer you enjoy getting started as soon as possible and not get stuck in passive speculation. You enjoy acting spontaneously and are not afraid of making mistakes.

### N - Idealist
As a idealist you enjoy relating reality to ideas and concepts and finding new patterns to explain things. You enjoy fantasizing how alternative facts and perspectives create possibilities.

### S - Realist
As a realist you enjoy relating things to experience and to what is straight-forward and realistic. You enjoy to stick to what is factual proven from experience.

### T - Technician
As a technician you enjoy basing decisions on impersonal or formal principles. You enjoy evaluating whether things hold up to established principles and guidelines.

### F - Symbolic
As a symbolic person you enjoy basing decisions on figurative or metaphorical values. You enjoy taking the perspective of experience and seeing how an action affects symbolic values.

### J - Judger
As a judger you enjoy sticking to tasks until you reach a closure before moving on to anything else. You are quite autonomous and resistant to disruptions.

### P - Perceiver
As a perceiver you enjoy quickly changing tasks and exploring new possibilities in the moment. You are quite collaborative and open to changes in plans.

## World-views

### NT - Intellectual
As an intellectual, you seek to find the underlying principles that lies behind performing well in tasks, hierarchies and competitions and strive to establish these ideals in society. Intellectuals are curious of the concepts and ideas that define success and try to refine and redefine these in their path of refining and redefining their own performance as well as the performance of people in their society.

### NF - Empathic
As an empath, you seek to find the themes and settings which creates the right experience and motivation for people to build a ideal society which is purposeful and ethical. Empaths are curious of the narratives and symbols that form the foundation for what’s right and wrong and strive to refine these in their path of cultivating their ethical compass as well as cultivating the ethical compass of their fellow-man.

### SF - Social
As a social, you seek to find the common themes and settings which are the foundation for the identity of your people. Socials are interested in the traditional narratives and symbols which have formed society so far and how to use these symbols to maintain the social identity of their people in spite of new changes in society.

### ST - Practical
As a practical, you seek to find the common procedures and routines that are the backbone of everyday efficiency in society. Practicals are interested in the established protocols and methods and how to efficiently keep using them to perform well in tasks, hierarchies and competitions in spite of new changes in society.

## Temperaments

### EJ - Executives
Executives have a preference towards action, presence, and short-term, hands on experience. Executives drive things forward with their dominant world-view, preferring to intervene directly. They thrive when they can engage topics and problems from a set interest or perspective, and generally prefer to make decisions in the situation instead of corresponding with universal laws and procedures. Executives enjoy to monitor and to be aware of their environment and the people in it. They have fun in controlled environments and clashes of opinions, or fists. They naturally prefer action-filled environments, where there is always something to engage them. They prefer to directly respond to interruptions and to engage conflicts directly.
Executives prefer to focus their attention towards things of their interest, controlling the flow of information related to their world-view, taking on a form of soccer approach to life. They are at their best when they are fully updated on the present situation and when they can respond to any new updates based on instinct. Spending time calculating or anticipating events can break their flow.
Executives require more direct control than Explorers, and respond worse to environments which lack supervision and predetermined standards of procedure, and such situations can make them more distanced and detached. Executives require more action than Leaders, and can become affective and emotional in situations that are unable to keep them engaged.

### IJ - Leaders
Leaders have a preference towards caution, distance, and long-term, big-picture thinking. Leaders lead with their dominant world-view, preferring not to intervene directly. They thrive when they can engage topics and problems with a set interest or perspective, and become uncertain if they can’t think of how to approach a topic. This makes them ideal leaders: they enjoy to be in the position of supervising a system or a group from a distance, but can become affective or detached if this mode is disrupted. They naturally prefer to direct: movies, stories, projects, people, research, or applications, but are also common in areas that require long-term devotion and focus.
They prefer to focus their attention towards things of their interest, controlling the flow of information and how things proceed, with a form of chess-board mentality. They are at their best, when they have thought several steps in advance, and become stressed when they are unable to execute these steps properly. Unanticipated events can get them out of their flow.
Leaders are more self-directed than Executives, and respond worse to supervision and outside control, becoming more affective. In these situations, they can become more choleric and aggressive. Leaders are more productive than Advisors, and feel a stronger desire to intervene and control the situation. If unable to intervene, they become more detached and disengaged, feeling a need to withdraw and pull back.

### EP - Explorers
Explorers enjoy action, presence, and fast-changing environments.  Explorers lead with curiosity, enjoying to continuously scan and review their present situation. Explorers primarily scan for things related to their dominant world-view and enjoy being the first to try out new things. They thrive when they can engage a situation or problem instinctively rather than based on a strict plan. They generally prefer to make decisions in the moment rather than from a distance and have more fun in relaxed, informal environments.
It’s natural for them to directly respond to new situations and relate to life through a form of dancers mentality, moving and adapting to the music or the mood of the situation. At their best, they move from situation to situation in a free-flow manner, adapting as they go.
Arguments or clashes of opinions or perspectives, experiencing control from others, can make them affective and emotional, making them become aggressive. In situations where there isn't enough new things which capture their interest, they can become detached and depressed.

### IP - Advisors
Advisors enjoy distance, caution, and reflection in adaptive, free-flow environments. They lead with silent curiosity, enjoying to meticulously study a topic or interests various details or viewpoints. They prefer not to intervene in things directly, instead offering advice or running trials from a distance. This makes them ideal teachers or analysts: they enjoy the position of answering questions and informing people on a topic, but prefer to do so in a less direct and controlled manner than the leaders. They have the most fun in relaxed, informal settings, with little pressure, and a lot of free-flow brainstorming.
They prefer to analyze conditions and possibilities, and tend to have more of a line-dancers mentality, often juggling and revising their positions on various issues and problems, offering the most in-depth, thorough and careful decision makers. In optimal environments they are given ample time for reflection and brainstorming in collaboration with others.
In situations that are too fast-paced and reactive, they become more affective and emotional. They also tend to become more distanced and cool in situations that require them to assume a position of authority and control.

# Specific

## ENFJ - Empathic Executives
ENFJs are very creative and theatrical in their self-expression. You are outspoken and sociable, warm, and affectionate. You quickly grow to love and appreciate others around you. You’re kind and seek to be a positive influence on the people around you. You tend to have strong existential and personal beliefs. You tend to express your values openly and directly, without much restraint. You love to talk freely about your values and your beliefs with others. You enjoy big or large groups and social settings, and you want things to happen around you wherever you go. You’re playful and prefer fun and carefree social interactions over more work-oriented situations. You show high excitement to life in general, to the point where you can almost come off as choleric. You love to be on stage, dazzling people with your talents and your scene presence.
You tend to be quick to trust and to share with others, freely expressing your quirky thoughts and emotions with others. You freely share your knowledge and your beliefs with others, and while you struggle with a bit of a temper, you tend to be quick to forgive others. You tend to connect with others unusually quickly. You live like a racecar, always forward, often in a fast manner, and it can be difficult for your friends and loved ones to keep track of everything new in your life. You are introspective and highly capable of independent thought. You enjoy thinking up new solutions and new ways to solve problems.
Because of your love for freedom, you show a tendency towards being anti-establishment. You tend to be distrustful of authority figures, and you recommend others to be the same way. ENFJs are passionate and slightly erratic about their values. You sometimes say and do things you regret, but your friends see this as a part of your charm and honesty. As an ENFJ, you tend to be resistant to new ideas and to new suggestions. You’re firm about your beliefs and when you’ve made up your mind, it’s hard to lure you to the other side. Your ideal romantic partner tends to be the INFP. Their spiritual, introspective side, and their inner depth appeals to you greatly.

-- old
Empathic Executives are daring, brave, and pro-active. They are champions for people’s values and for social goals. They work hard to get other people together on social issues, finding common goals and values. They seek to be heroes or antagonists in people’s stories. They realize the power of our beliefs and our values, seeing them as the driving agent of all the change in the world. They are ready to push forward their values and beliefs no matter how others will react. They express themselves fully, holding little back, and keeping few secrets. They are loyal and committed to the people they care about, and take breaches in trust hard. They can react and make decisions even when they lack information or knowledge about the situation, purely based on their gut reactions.
They can sometimes be divisive, creating and bringing conflicts in groups to surface, but try hard to keep harmony in groups by team-building and setting an atmosphere. They are adventurous, seeking pleasant experiences, comfort, and appreciation from others. They are adventurous, daring, and brave, capable of ignoring and going against what they fear, even when they don’t know what is going to happen. They don’t need time to figure out their mind, and can make impulsive decisions if their instincts pull them to do so.
They can hold on to positive or negative experiences longer than any other type, sometimes holding grudges or struggling to process their problems or mistakes. They are decisive, goal-oriented, and try hard to live up to external expectations when possible. They are articulate, knowing exactly how to phrase themselves to get their message across, and quick to clear up errors and potential misunderstandings in communication. They take action when people go against their ethics, values, and emotions.

## INFJ - Empathic Leaders
INFJs are mysterious, perhaps due to their private, withdrawn nature. You have a love for mystery. You are freedom-loving and seek to find your own path in life. You seek peace, and you seek wisdom and knowledge to become more connected to nature and humanity. You tend to have strong existential and personal beliefs. You tend to express these values in a private, personal manner, living by your ideals, but letting everyone else live according to their own.
While you can enjoy short-term interactions with others, you tend to be withdrawn most of the time, and you are generally hesitant to meet new people. You tend to love the world of books, stories, and you often show an interest for introspective pursuits, such as meditation and personal spiritual experiences. You’re recreative and prefer play and carefree social interactions over more work-oriented situations.
You tend to show caution around others, finding it difficult to trust others, and you tend to be perfectionistic about who you let into your life. When wronged, you are quick to get rid of the people who have hurt you and broken your trust. But when you love someone, you become a pillar of support to them, helping them in any way you can, by giving them freedom and sharing your knowledge about the world. You are introspective and highly capable of independent thought. You enjoy thinking up new solutions and new ways to solve problems.
Because of your love for freedom, you show a tendency towards being anti-establishment. You tend to be distrustful of authority figures, and you recommend others to be the same way. While INFJs show a cool exterior, their friends and loved ones can be surprised to see how passionate they really are about things on the inside. As an INFJ, you tend to be resistant to new ideas and to new suggestions. You like to think about things before you make up your mind, and you dislike changing and adjusting plans. Your ideal romantic mate tends to be the ENFP, whos supportive, energetic, and free nature appeals to you.

-- old
Empathic Leaders realize more than anyone, the power of our beliefs. Our beliefs shape our identity, our actions, and our work. If we can change people’s beliefs, we can change the world. INFJs have strong values, values that if developed, can make them into visionaries. Due to their strength as story-tellers, they tend to be popular speakers, capable of inspiring the masses and getting people to rally behind them. Due to their pro-activity, they can sometimes be divisive, causing conflicts and polarization. INFJs seek to push the limits of their beliefs, seeing how far they can get with vision as their primary fuel.
They are relaxed dreamers, adventurers, and philosophers, they dream of exploring the world, but are sometimes held back by their fears. INFJs need time to get over this fear – they are sensitive, careful, and studious, and they overcome their fears by being able to explain the unexplainable, by understanding what might happen, and allowing themselves the time to prepare. When an INFJ experiences true understanding, they can take incredible, calculated risks, and because INFJs are incredibly curious, studying everything around them, they overtime become more and more brave, using their knowledge and awareness as their armor when exploring the uncertain and the complex. They enjoy sharing this insight with others, and they can use their instincts to fill in the uncertain, taking a good guess as to what might be going on.
INFJs see messages and stories in everything. Being empathic, they are strongly shaped by the world they live in, and the beliefs that circulate in their time, but they seek alternative routes, ways to change the society, and to take it in another direction. They are rebellious and often anti-establishment figures. As empaths, they aren't unfamiliar to changing their lifestyle or their behavior in order to live up to their values and beliefs. INFJs are pro-active in their desire to connect, constantly bonding with new people. They are firm in their beliefs, and it’s very hard to change their values. They are naturally driven to spread and express their values and ethics to others, finding great pleasure in getting others to work together with them, as well as confronting those who disagree with them in heated debate.

## ENFP - Empathic Explorers
ENFPs share energy and creativity with everyone they meet, inspiring people to be free, unique, and kind.  You are supportive, sociable, warm, and affectionate. You are quick to love and appreciate others. You’re insatiably curious and eager to learn about new things. You change frequently, and quickly, with every new experience you get to enjoy. You tend to express your values honestly and casually, and you’re very receptive to feedback. You love to hear about new ideas and new perspectives. You enjoy big or large groups and social settings, where you can feel like a part of the party. You see things a new way every time you look at things, and that becomes a big part of your creativity. You’re recreative and prefer play and carefree social interactions over more work-oriented situations. You’re involved with your culture and the people in your neighborhood and tend to know everyone in your community. You’re always trying to plan and organize your life, but you’re always coming up with new order, you can never really stick to something. The thing with ENFPs is they love abstract ideas more than tangible ones - things are always more fun in theory than in practice.
You tend to be quick to trust and to share with others, freely expressing your quirky thoughts and ideas with others. You tend to connect with others unusually quickly. You live like a racecar, always forward, often in a fast manner, and it can be difficult for your friends and loved ones to keep track of everything new in your life. You may at times struggle with lack of direction or uncertainity about your long-term goals. You are introspective and highly capable of independent thought. You enjoy thinking up new solutions and new ways to solve problems. You’re a practical problem solver, you know how to get your way and you’re good at being objective about the situation.
Because of your love for freedom, you show a tendency towards being anti-establishment. You tend to be distrustful of authority figures, and you recommend others to be the same way. ENFPs can act erratically when pressured by friends and family members, often doing the opposite of what they are told. You often make decisions and do things you regret, but your friends see this as a part of your charm and free-spirited nature. As an ENFP, you tend to be very open to others input and thoughts, but it’s hard to keep up your interest for long. Your ideal romantic mate tends to be the INFJ, whos wise, loyal and introspective nature is alluring to you.

-- old
Empathic Explorers are playful, open-minded, and brave. Driven by an immense, never ending curiosity, and quick speed, they understand complex messages quickly. ENFPs are always scanning-for-changes and refocusing in order to meet new problems. They are existentialists, often questioning ‘why?’ we are here, and what our purpose is. They create and participate in stories cooperatively, acting out their beliefs and values. Spending little time in cautious preparation, they are built to take risks and to see where the story leads, and they can usually find a way out of a tricky situation.
As Empathic types, they can act as story-tellers, becoming ethically influential, and inspiring change and novelty. Empathic Explorers give others energy, and express energy and stimulation outwardly, often causing them to have stage-presence and to be easily seen by others. They seek good experiences, wildness, the natural, and the pleasant. They are intelligent, quick to solve problems and to implement changes when necessary. They make guesses and study their environment and how it can be used and improved. They imagine and think ahead short-term, instinctively knowing what to respond or how to move in response to a situation. They are constantly learning new things, taking in new information, and going against their fears.
Interested in people, they naturally pursue those who they can’t explain, and those who move to their own beat. ENFPs ignore their fears, but are always a little nervous. They tend to be rebellious and often anti-establishment, driven to point out a new way. They are socially adaptive and driven to learn of other’s needs, values, and motives. They speculate and brainstorm reasons for other people’s actions. They show interest in others behavior and their reasons.

## INFP - Empathic Advisors
INFPs have many ideas and thoughts about alot of subjects, but they don’t easily share these thoughts with others. As an INFP, you are supportive, polite, warm, and loyal. You take time to warm up to other people. You’re curious and eager to learn about new things. You change your mind frequently, as you have an introspective mind that juggles multiple possibilities back and forth. You tend to be honest and find it difficult to lie to others. You’re very receptive to feedback from others, and you listen intently to people around you. You love to hear about new ideas and new perspectives. You enjoy one-to-one interactions and smaller groups the most, but you tend to be cautious around new people. You’re recreative and prefer play and carefree social interactions over more work-oriented situations. You’re a practical decision maker and you don’t really discuss your decisions much with others. You’re an objective decision maker and you go with your gut.
You tend to take time to trust others, often holding back your feelings and thoughts until you know the other person is going to accept them. You have a cautious, introspective temperament, and you think unusually long about things before you make up your mind on things. But this also means others who come close to you will see you as a thoughtful person. Some people call you a healer, because you get them to feel more in tune with their emotions. You are introspective and highly capable of independent thought. You enjoy thinking up new solutions and new ways to solve problems. You’re often trying to create order and structure around you, but you have a tendency to change things up often - nothing really remains the same around you for long.
INFPs tend to have a high need for spirituality and for deeper, mysterious experiences. You read and experiment with spiritual beliefs and existential perspectives. You tend to see life as precious and inherently meaningful, as something to be nurtured and loved.

-- old
Empathic Advisors carefully study the values, and beliefs around them. They are reactive, driven to learn every side of the story, filling in blanks and understanding the people around them. INFPs are always decoding the messages around them, studying symbols, actions, and words carefully to find out their meaning. This makes them complex listeners – they are more interested in what you don’t say, than what you do say. When they can develop these skills, they can surprise people with their insight into others motives, values, and desires. INFPs are cooperative and adaptable and they try hard to be of service to the people around them.
INFPs are strongly shaped by what is beautiful, what is pleasant, and what is natural. They are driven to be hopeful, good, and ethical. They seek to build a unique character and a place in their community. Sensitive to others reactions and experiences, they can read in a lot, and being so flexible and adaptable, they are constantly relating themselves to others, learning about how they differ from and relate to others. They tend to be avid readers, seeking insight and knowledge from stories, movies, and other’s actions.
They are fascinated by stories, dreams, and the thought of travel and experience. They have a thirst for experience and pleasure seeking, seeking warmth, harmony, recreation, and the comfortable, and in this pursuit, they can sometimes try overly hard to adapt to their partner or outside expectations. Because of this, they may often feel a need to pull away those they feel are unpleasant, in order to heal, and build their own identity. As they tend to go through many changes throughout their life, they may sometimes begin to wonder what their true self is. Truth it, they are all of it, nobody has the self-awareness that empathic teachers tend to gather over the years. Their uncertainty is a key strength of their personality, because they spend so much time analyzing what the right choice is, they know what the right choice is, better than anyone. This can make them invaluable to others, who seek to know the right course forward, INFPs are often acting as advisors, therapists, and consultants to others.

## ENTJ - Intellectual Executives
ENTJs are strong to the point of being slightly intimidating. You are outspoken and sociable, driven and business-oriented. You are quick to engage and work with others. You’re strong and radiate power to the people around you. You tend to have strong beliefs and a strong work-ethic. You tend to express your opinions openly and directly, without holding back. You love to talk freely about your thoughts and to have open, serious discussions with others. You enjoy big or large groups and social settings, where you can express yourself without restraint. You’re intelligent and value efficiency and people who are able to think up smart ways to do things. You’re a practical and objective decision maker. You know what’s best and you don’t really need to discuss things with others to know what to do. You’re comfortable taking risks and throwing the balls up in the air sometimes, just to see where they land. You have a good grasp of what you want, and how to get there.
You tend to be quick to trust and to share with others, freely expressing your ideas and strategies with others. You enjoy share your facts and engaging in logical discussions with others, and while you may struggle with a bit of a temper, you tend to be quick to forgive others. You tend to connect with others unusually quickly, but you connect more about ideas and on similar work-related goals than on a personal level. You live like a racecar, always forward, often in a fast manner, and it can be difficult for your friends and loved ones to keep track of everything new in your life. You are introspective and highly capable of independent thought. You enjoy thinking up new solutions and new ways to solve problems.
Because of your love for progress and creativity, you tend to frown on traditions and social necessities. You find politness to often be an obstacle and would rather people just state their opinions openly. This is somewhat paradoxical, because you have a tendency to become quite an authority yourself. ENTJs are driven and proactive and slightly erratic about their values. You often say and do things you regret, but your friends see this as a part of your direct and honest style. As an ENTJ, you tend to be resistant to new ideas and to new suggestions. You’re firm about your beliefs and when you’ve made up your mind, it’s hard to lure you to the other side. Your ideal romantic partner tends to be the INTP. Their love for logic, their ability to reflect deeply on things, and their thoughtfulness appeals to you greatly.

-- old
Intellectual Executives are serious, goal-oriented, and decisive. They think long-term about what might or might not happen, anticipating and improvising to solve and fix problems on the way to their goals. They strive for success and improvement, making good coaches, offering feedback, tips, and suggestions to anyone who is interested. They are objective, impersonal, and result-oriented, and find strong pleasure and satisfaction in overcoming challenges, successfully undertaking a project or learning a new skill. They have strong focus, and they inspire action and movement in the people around them.
They find and identify problems, and they make sure the system is working as intended. They have stage-presence, and high energy, pushing and rallying people behind their goals. They are always double-checking their environment for changes. They are anti-establishment, rebellious, questioning power structures and having their own ideals for how the scales should be balanced. They seek power and responsibility. They are intelligent, quick at understanding the situation, and confident at explaining the situation to others. They have a quick reaction speed and a high productivity. They calculate and measure and come up with systems to score and to determine their success in a field. They are emotional and fierce, responding aggressively to challenges. They set boundaries to keep people focused on a project or an idea. They are autonomous, directive, and independent.

## INTJ - Intellectual Leaders
INTJs seek and aspire towards success and development of ideas. You are cautious and take time to warm up to others, and you’re driven and business-oriented. You test and see if people are worthy of your trust. You’re ambitious and proactive but you can take many years before you put your plans in motion. You tend to have strong beliefs and a strong work-ethic. You tend to express your opinions openly and directly, without holding back. You love to take a step back and to think about things in depth.  You enjoy small groups or intimate one-to-one interactions, but there’s no place like home. You’re intelligent and value efficiency and people who are able to think up smart ways to do things. You have a knack for knowing if something is going to work and for estimating how successful something could be. You have a good grasp of what exactly it is that you want and how to get there. You generally want something tangible, and you want your goals to have concrete rewards. You are an objective decision maker and you don’t really believe in discussing your decisions with others in advance.
You take time to open up to others. You enjoy share your facts and engaging in logical discussions with others, and you may struggle with a bit of a temper. You appear stern and stoic, and somewhat hard to get to know. You mostly prefer being at home or somewhere where you can focus on your goals. You are introspective and highly capable of independent thought. You enjoy thinking up new solutions and new ways to solve problems.
Because of your love for progress and creativity, you tend to frown on traditions and social necessities. You find politness to often be an obstacle and would rather people just state their opinions openly. This is somewhat paradoxical, because you have a tendency to become quite an authority yourself. INTJs are driven and proactive, almost to the point of becoming pushy about their goals. You’re secure and safe and rarely act recklessly. As an INTJ, you tend to be resistant to new ideas and to new suggestions. You’re firm about your beliefs and when you’ve made up your mind, it’s hard to lure you to the other side. Your ideal romantic partner tends to be the ENTP. Their love for logic, their ability to spread energy and ideas, and their openness to new ideas appeals to you greatly.

-- old
Intellectual Leaders are serious, focused, and goal-oriented. They think long-term about their life and enjoy developing big, complex systems. They are theoretical, logical, intelligent, and functionalist. They strive for success and improvement, good for coming up with new projects, and they thrive when they can study and develop themselves. They are objective, impersonal, and result-oriented, and find strong pleasure and satisfaction in overcoming challenges, successfully undertaking a project, or learning a new skill. They are rebellious and anti-establishment, and seek independent beliefs. They are autonomous and pro-active, and can actively be champions for their ideas and thoughts on how others or how the world could be improved.
They take on the spider-in-the-web trait to study and control the flow of the group, carefully sitting back and studying how the system works and could work better. They are stable and calm, and great for explaining and making people understand their ideas and their projects. They are self-reflective and take their time to understand their fears and worries, using their knowledge and their thinking to prepare and to equip themselves to deal with scary changes.
They are curious and inventive, imaginative, and instinctive, seeking to learn and to know as much as possible about their goals and decisions. They can use this information to help others prepare ahead of a project or changes. They often change and play around with rules, seeking both to follow rules and to be strategical. They are not uncommon to take risks in business, or to gamble or play in games involving strategy and risk-assessment. They set boundaries and limitations for projects, to help the group stay focused on a project. They tend to have their own recipe for success and happiness, along with rules they follow to achieve this success.

## ENTP - Intellectual Explorers
ENTPs are always engaged by interesting discussions. You are outspoken and sociable, driven and achievement-oriented. You are quick to engage and work with others. You’re cooperative and you tend to empower the people around you. You tend to love seeing ideas from new angles and creatively discussing about growth and progress. You tend to express your opinions openly and directly, but in a casual, open-minded manner. You love to talk freely about your thoughts and to have open, serious discussions with others. You enjoy large groups and social settings, where there is always something new happening. You’re intelligent and value efficiency and people who are able to think up smart ways to do things. You have alot of ideas and opinions but you prefer to discuss them with others before you make them. You like to sell and promote your ideas and debates, and the success of an idea to you on how good you sell it. You’re well in touch with your community and your neighborhood and have strong social networks.
You tend to be quick to trust and to share with others, freely expressing your ideas and strategies with others. You enjoy share your facts and engaging in logical discussions with others, and while you may get slightly frustrated with others at times, you tend to be quick to forgive them. You tend to connect with others unusually quickly, but you connect more about ideas and on similar work-related goals than on a personal level. You live like a racecar, always forward, often in a fast manner, and it can be difficult for your friends and loved ones to keep track of everything new in your life. You are despite this generally introspective and highly capable of independent thought. You enjoy thinking up new solutions and new ways to solve problems.
Because of your love for progress and creativity, you tend to frown on traditions and social necessities. You find politness to often be an obstacle and would rather people just state their opinions openly. ENTPs are hard-working, and often have a lot on their plates. You often say and do things you regret, but your friends see this as a part of your direct and honest style. As an ENTP, you tend to be highly open to new ideas and somewhat easily distracted - perhaps you could work on your focus at times. Your ideal romantic partner tends to be the INTJ. Their love for logic, their ability to reflect deeply on things, and their decisiveness appeals to you greatly.

-- old
Intellectual Explorers are playful, enthusiastic, and open-minded. They think short-term about what might or might not happen, anticipating and improvising to solve and fix new problems. They strive for success and improvement, making good coaches, offering feedback, tips, and suggestions to anyone who is interested. They are objective, impersonal, and result-oriented, and find strong pleasure and satisfaction in overcoming challenges, successfully undertaking a project or learning a new skill. They are rebellious and anti-establishment, and seek independent beliefs. They are cooperative and helpful, actively refocusing their efforts in order to respond to and adapt to changes in a project.
They are daring, brave, and reflexive, acting quickly when things go wrong. They instinctively follow their fears and their curiosity, listening and adapting to what is within their realm of possibilities. They spread energy and enthusiasm to the people in the group, inspiring people to brain-storm and to take a guess. They test boundaries and options to find out which job, project, or decision might be the most effective. They study their score and performance, as well as how others are doing, and they come up with ideas for how people can deal with problems on their way.
They calculate, measure, and question things around them, finding immediate ways to obtain rewards and success. They cut corners and take a gamble, testing how much they can get away with. They are easy-going, and live by standards on how to live. They seek awareness, knowledge, and new information, wherever they can find it, energized by the chance to learn something new. They enjoy the theoretical, the abstract, and speculating on what is possible.

## INTP - Intellectual Advisors
INTPs are the smart ones. They love to learn and to think of the most efficient, smart way to solve a problem. You are fairly laid back and cautious around new people. You are open-minded and highly open to feedback, yet critical and quick to spot flaws in others thoughts. You’re cooperative and perceptive and you tend to have good advice to offer your friends and coworkers. You tend to love seeing ideas from new angles and creatively exploring new opportunities to grow. You tend to think deeply before you express your opinions to others. You think a lot actually, but there is much you don’t share. You prefer smaller, more intimate social settings, and there’s no place like home!
You enjoy sharing your facts and expertise in discussions with others, and you tend to get frustrated by others irrationality at times. You tend to take time to connect with others, and you connect more about ideas and on similar work-related goals than on a personal level. You love to discuss things. You’re always trying to promote and spark enthusiasm for your ideas. You want your ideas to connect with the community and the people around you, and you tend to have a wide range of interests. You tend to have strong social networks and lots of social support from the people around you, people that will help and appreciate you in times of need.
You tend to have your foot on the brakes alot of the time, trying to slow down and control how things proceed. Perhaps you could let loose more? You are introspective and highly capable of independent thought. You enjoy thinking up new solutions and new ways to solve problems. You’re highly self-critical and quick to deconstruct and spot issues and flaws in your ideas - if you’re gonna promote something to others, you want to make sure it really is good.
Because of your love for progress and creativity, you tend to frown on traditions and social necessities. You find politness to often be an obstacle and would rather people just state their opinions openly. INTPs are smart, but sometimes lack execution. As an INTP, you tend to be very open to new ideas and somewhat easily distracted - perhaps you could work on your focus at times? Your ideal romantic partner tends to be the ENTJ. Their love for logic, their decisiveness and their strong work ethic inspires you greatly.

-- old
Intellectual Advisors are playful, enthusiastic, and open-minded. They think short-term about what might or might not happen, anticipating and improvising to solve and fix new problems. They speculate and they prepare for any eventuality. They study the systems and the functions around them to understand how things work, and they find ways to experiment and test the systems around them. They cut-corners and test boundaries to see what might or might not happen. They study and question power, who has it, and how they use it.
They enjoy challenges and complex puzzles. They are intelligent, logical, and thrive in the unfamiliar or complex. They measure, order, and refine theories and thoughts to explain their environment and the world around them. They take the role of the spider-in-the-web, or the teacher, helping people understand abstract systems. They are educated and study and prepare ahead before trying something new. They are interested in business, success, and accuracy. They are quick to change and adapt when they realize something is incorrect or problematic.
They sometimes suffer from indecisiveness, juggling many different options for how a system should work, and avoiding making decisions. They test people’s knowledge and insight in a field, and cooperatively step in to help and to clarify misunderstandings where people fail. They are emotional and sensitive to errors and mistakes, taking their time to fix problems when they emerge.

## ESFJ - The Social Executives
ESFJs are very humble and polite in their self-expression. You are outspoken and sociable, warm, and affectionate. You quickly grow to love and appreciate others around you. You’re kind and seek to be a positive influence on the people around you. You tend to have strong existential and personal beliefs. You tend to express your values openly and directly, without much restraint. You love to talk freely about your values and your beliefs with others. You enjoy big or large groups and social settings, and you want things to happen around you wherever you go. You’re playful and prefer fun and carefree social interactions over more work-oriented situations. You’re community oriented and want to be an integral, trustworthy part of society.
You tend to be quick to trust and to share with others, freely expressing your thoughts and opinions with others. You freely share your knowledge and your beliefs with others, and you’re diplomatic and well in touch with others needs and quirks. You tend to connect with others unusually quickly. You live like a racecar, always forward, often in a fast manner, and it can be difficult for your friends and loved ones to keep track of everything happening in your life. You are sensitive to feedback and you listen a lot to your family and the people around you. You trust and try hard to follow instructions and norms. You like selling your ideas and your opinions to the people around you, and you love to discuss your values and morals with others.
Because of your love for politeness, health, and tradition, you tend to distrust those who are in discord with society. You think everyone should work hard to respect their superiors and to adjust to the normal flow of things. ESFJs are passionate and slightly erratic about their values. You sometimes say and do things you regret, but your friends see this as a part of your charm and honesty. As an ESFJ, you tend to be resistant to new ideas and to new suggestions. You’re firm about your beliefs and when you’ve made up your mind, it’s hard to lure you to the other side. Your ideal romantic partner tends to be the ISFP. Their down to earth, thoughtful side, and their inner depth appeals to you greatly.

-- old
Social Executives are daring, brave, and pro-active. They are champions for people’s values and for social goals. They work hard to get other people together on social issues, finding common goals and values. They seek to be heroes or antagonists in their culture. They realize the power of our traditions and our culture, seeing them as the determining factor of harmony. They are ready to push forward their values and beliefs no matter how others will react. They express themselves fully, holding little back, and keeping few secrets. They are loyal and committed to the people they care about, and take breaches in trust hard. They can react and make decisions even when they lack information or knowledge about the situation, purely based on their gut reactions.
They can sometimes be divisive, creating and bringing conflicts in groups to surface, but try hard to keep harmony in groups by team-building and setting an atmosphere. They are adventurous, seeking pleasant experiences, comfort, and appreciation from others. They are adventurous, daring, and brave, capable of ignoring and going against what they fear, even when they don’t know what is going to happen. They don’t need time to figure out their mind, and can make impulsive decisions if their instincts pull them to do so.
They can hold on to positive or negative experiences longer than any other type, sometimes holding grudges or struggling to process their problems or mistakes. They are decisive, goal-oriented, and try hard to live up to external expectations when possible. They are articulate, knowing exactly how to phrase themselves to get their message across, and quick to clear up errors and potential misunderstandings in communication. They take action when people go against their morals, values, and emotions.

## ISFJ - The Social Leaders
ISFJs are very humble and polite in their self-expression. You are open-minded and sociable, warm, and affectionate. You are friendly, but need time to grow to trust others around you. You’re kind and seek to be a positive influence on the people around you. You tend to have strong personal beliefs, beliefs well rooted in your community. You only share what’s on your mind when you’ve thought it through for a while. You keep your own thoughts to yourself, unless you trust the person you’re speaking with. You prefer smaller and more intimate social settings, where you can have more personal discussions with people you trust, but there’s no place like home. You’re playful and prefer fun and carefree social interactions over more work-oriented situations. You’re community oriented and want to be an integral, trustworthy part of society.
You take time to warm up to people around you, you want to know they can be counted on in times of need before you let them into your intimate sphere. You like to share and discuss your knowledge and your beliefs with others, and you’re diplomatic and well in touch with others needs and quirks. Your friends tend to think you’re a bit slow with making decisions at times, you’re always thinking things over, but that means, when you say something, people know you’re serious. You are sensitive to feedback and you listen a lot to your family. You trust and try hard to follow instructions and norms. You like selling your ideas and your opinions to the people around you, and you love to discuss your values and morals with others.
Because of your love for politeness, health, and tradition, you tend to distrust those who are in discord with society. You think everyone should work hard to respect their superiors and to adjust to the normal flow of things. ISFJs are passionate and slightly erratic about their values. You sometimes say and do things you regret, but your friends see this as a part of your charm and honesty. As an ISFJ, you tend to be resistant to new ideas and to new suggestions. You’re firm about your beliefs and when you’ve made up your mind, it’s hard to lure you to the other side. Your ideal romantic partner tends to be the ESFP. Their down to earth, thoughtful side, and their inner depth appeals to you greatly.

-- old
Social Leaders realize more than anyone, the power of our culture. Our culture affirm our identity, actions, and work. If we can maintain culture, we can maintain harmony. ISFJs have strong values, values that if developed, can make them into guardians. Due to their strength as story-tellers, they tend to be popular speakers, capable of inspiring the masses and getting people to rally behind them. Due to their pro-activity, they can sometimes be divisive, causing conflicts and polarization. ISFJs seek to push the limits of good culture, seeing how far they can get with culture as their primary fuel.
They are traditional, dependable, and relaxed, they dream of helping their community, but are sometimes held back by their fears for the new. ISFJs need time to get over this fear – they are sensitive, careful, and studious, and they overcome their fears by being able to defend what they believe is right and by understanding what might happen, and allowing themselves the time to prepare. When an ISFJ experiences true understanding, they can take incredible, calculated risks, and because ISFJs are incredibly harmonious and appreciative of traditions, they overtime become more and more brave, using their knowledge and awareness as their armor when exploring new arenas. They enjoy sharing this insight with others, and they can use their instincts to fill in the uncertain, taking a good guess as to what might be going on.
ISFJs see statements and stories in everything. Being Social, they are strongly shaped by the world they live in, and the beliefs that circulate in their time, and they often see the value in existing traditions and see ways to cultivate whats good in society, and to take it in a safe direction. They are conventional and often pro-establishment figures. As Socials, they aren't unfamiliar with changing their lifestyle or their behavior in order to live up to the norms in society. ISFJs are pro-active in their desire to connect, constantly bonding with new people. They are firm in their beliefs, and it’s very hard to change their values. They are naturally driven to spread and express their values and morals to others, finding great pleasure in getting others to work together with them, as well as confronting those who disagree with them in heated debate.

## ESFP - The Social Explorers
ESFPs are usually popular in crowds and parties, they liven up and spread positive energy around them.
ESFPs are very humble and polite in their self-expression. You are outspoken and sociable, warm, and affectionate. You quickly grow to love and appreciate others around you. You’re an independent spirit and you don’t really care much about what others think. You love to talk and to be around others. You enjoy big or large groups and social settings, and you want things to happen around you wherever you go. You’re playful and prefer fun and carefree social interactions over more work-oriented situations. You’re competitive and you love to work out disagreements through your skill at work and in games. You know exactly what you want and you’re comfortable taking risks to get there.
You tend to be quick to trust and to share with others, freely expressing your thoughts and opinions with others. You freely share your knowledge and your beliefs with others, and you’re diplomatic and well in touch with others needs and quirks. You tend to connect with others unusually quickly. You live like a racecar, always forward, often in a fast manner, and it can be difficult for your friends and loved ones to keep track of everything happening in your life. You are down to earth and trust what you know and want. You are an objective decision maker and you go with your gut at all times - and you don’t need to discuss your gut with others. Your strong instincts are somewhat remarkable at times.
Because of your need for courtesy, to be in good health, and to value tradition, you tend to distrust those who are in discord with society. You think everyone should work hard to respect the natural order of things. ESFPs are confident in their own skills and abilities. As an ESFP, you tend to be open to learn at all times. Your ideal romantic partner tends to be the ISFJ. Their roots to society and their loyalty is highly attractive to you.

-- old
Social Explorers are playful, open-minded and brave. Driven by an immense, never ending wonder, and quick speed, they grasp situations rapidly. ESFPs are always scanning-for-changes and refocusing in order to meet new problems. They are experimentalists, focusing on ´how it feels´, and how peoples reality looks like. They create and participate in stories cooperatively, acting out their beliefs and values. Spending little time in cautious preparation, they are built to take risks and to see where the story leads, and they can usually find a way out of a tricky situation.
As Social types, they can act as the cultural backbone, protecting established habits and beliefs, and inspiring courage and morals. Social Explores give others energy, and express energy and stimulation outwardly, often causing them to have a stage-presence and to be easily seen by others. They seek good experiences, wildness, the natural, and the pleasant. They are realistic, quick to attend problems and to act when necessary. They make guesses and study their environment and how it can be used and cultivated. They rationalize and think ahead short-term, instinctively knowing what to respond or how to move in response to a situation. They are constantly experiencing new things, creating new memories, and going against their fears.
Interested in people, they naturally pursue traditional arenas, and easily fit in with the established norms. ESFPs ignore their fears, but are always a little nervous. They tend to be patriotic and often pro-establishment, driven to maintain established ways. They are socially adaptive and driven to learn of other´s needs, values and motives. They speculate and brainstorm reasons for other people´s actions. They show interest in others behavior and their reasons.

## ISFP - The Social Advisors
ISFPs have strong beliefs and convictions and a tendency towards being religious. They have very strong character.
ISFPs have strong instincts and a strong gut judgements. You are humble in their self-expression. You are quiet and reserved, and quite a dreamer. You take time to love and appreciate others around you. You’re a polite person and you don’t really care much about what others think. You love silence and to be at peace. You like private or intimate social settings and there’s no place like home to you. You’re playful and prefer fun and carefree social interactions over more work-oriented situations. You can be competitive in games and at work. You know exactly what you want and you’re comfortable taking risks to get there. You just need to think about it for a bit first.
You tend to take time to trust and to share with others, and you only share your heart with those you trust. You trust your own judgement and you have a firm grasp of the world and what happens around you. You’re often questioning others intentions and if they can be trusted. You try to control and slow down things so that you don’t become overwhelmed. You are down to earth and trust what you know and want. You trust and try hard to follow instructions and norms in society. You are an objective decision maker and you go with your gut at all times - and you don’t need to discuss your gut with others. Your strong instincts are remarkable at times.
Because of your need for courtesy, good health, and respect for tradition, you tend to distrust those who are in discord with society. You think everyone should work hard to respect their superiors and to go with the natural order of things. ISFPs are highly confident in their skills and abilities. As an ISFP, you tend to be open to learn at all times. Your ideal romantic partner tends to be the ESFJ. Their roots to society and their charisma and passion is highly attractive to you.

-- old
Social Advisors carefully study the values, and beliefs around them. They are reactive, driven to learn every side of the story, filling in blanks and understanding the people around them. ISFPs are always decoding the messages around them, studying symbols, actions, and words carefully to find out their meaning. This makes them complex listeners - they are more interested in what you don´t say, than what you do say. When they can develop these skills, they can surprise people with their insight into others motives, values, and desires. ISFPs are cooperative and adaptable and they try hard to be of service to the people around them.
ISFPs are strongly shaped by what is beautiful, what is pleasant, and what is natural. They are driven to be hopeful, good, and ethical. They seek to build a unique character and place in their community. Sensitive to others reactions and experiences, they can read in a lot, and being so flexible and adaptable, they are constantly relating themselves to others, learning about how they differ from and relate to others. They tend to be good supporters, learning from new experiences and making sure people are having a good time.
They are fascinated by personal stories, believes and social behavior. They have a thirst for experience and pleasure seeking, seeking warmth, harmony, recreation, and the comfortable, and in this pursuit, they can sometimes try overly hard to adapt to their partner or outside expectations. Because of this, they may often feel a need to pull away from those they feel are unpleasant, in order to heal, and build their own identity. As they tend to go through many strong experiences in their life, they are constantly cultivating the good traditions and refining their idea of the ´good life´. This makes them mature into experts in social decision-making and as strong voices for good traditions.

## ESTJ - The Practical Executives
ESTJs are strong to the point of being slightly intimidating. You are outspoken and sociable, driven and business-oriented. You are quick to engage and work with others. You radiate power to the people around you. You tend to have strong beliefs and a strong work-ethic. You tend to express your opinions openly and directly, without holding back. You’re competetive and you like to win. You love to talk freely about your thoughts and to have open, serious discussions with others. You enjoy big or large groups and social settings, where you can express yourself without restraint. You’re an expert at what you do and value efficiency and productivity highly. You’re very involved with your community and you want to be someone people can trust and count on.
You tend to be quick to trust and to share with others, freely expressing your ideas and strategies with others. You enjoy share your facts and engaging in logical discussions with others, and while you may struggle with a bit of a temper, you tend to be quick to forgive others. You tend to connect with others unusually quickly, but you connect more about work and about traditions than on an emotional level. You live like a racecar, always forward, often in a fast manner, and it can be difficult for your friends and loved ones to keep track of everything going on in your life. You pride yourself on living up to societal expectations, maintaining your health, being polite, being on time. You are a practical and fairly simple person.
Because of your need for power and order, you tend to frown on sentiment and kind gestures. You value strength and self-reliance. You find politness to often be an obstacle and would rather people just state their opinions openly. ESTJs are driven and proactive and slightly erratic about their values. You often say and do things you regret, but your friends see this as a part of your direct and honest style. As an ESTJ, you tend to be resistant to new ideas and to new suggestions. You’re firm about your beliefs and when you’ve made up your mind, it’s hard to lure you to the other side. Your ideal romantic partner tends to be the ISTP. Their love for logic, their ability to reflect deeply on things, and their thoughtfulness appeals to you greatly.

-- old
Practical Executives are serious, goal-oriented, and decisive. They think long-term about what might or might not happen, anticipating and improvising to solve and fix problems on the way to their goals. They strive for success and improvement, making good coaches, offering feedback, tips, and suggestions to anyone who is interested. They are objective, impersonal, and result-oriented, and find strong pleasure and satisfaction in overcoming challenges, successfully undertaking a project or learning a new skill. They have strong focus, and they inspire action and movement in the people around them.
They find and identify problems, and they make sure the system is working as intended. They have stage-presence, and high energy, pushing and rallying people behind their goals. They are always double-checking their environment for changes. They are pro-establishment, conventional, enforcing power structures and supporting established ideals for how the scales should be balanced. They seek power and responsibility. They are practical, quick at understanding the situation, and confident at explaining the situation to others. They have a quick reaction speed and a high productivity. They are objective, impersonal, and result-oriented. They calculate and measure their success in a field. They are emotional and fierce, responding aggressively to challenges. They set boundaries to keep people focused on a project or an idea. They are autonomous, directive, and independent.

## ISTJ - The Practical Leaders
ISTJs are strong but calm and steady personalities. You are thoughtful and traditional, work-focused and business-oriented. You listen to and respect your family and your closest friends. You radiate calm to the people around you, and you make your friends feel safe and secure around you. You tend to appear experienced and people think you have a strong work-ethic. You generally stay out of other people’s personal lives and give people the freedom to be themselves. You’re competetive and you like to win. You love to talk freely about your thoughts and to have open, serious discussions with others. You enjoy smaller and more intimate social gatherings, and there’s no place like home to you. You tend to become an expert at what you do and value efficiency and productivity highly. You’re very involved with your community and you want to be someone people can trust and count on.
You tend to take time to warm up to others. You’re a firm decision maker and you’re good at going with your gut. You enjoy to share your facts and to engage in logical discussions with others, and while you may struggle with a bit of a temper, you tend to be quick to forgive others. You tend to connect with others slowly, and you connect more about work and about traditions than on an emotional level. You pride yourself on doing favors for and helping your close ones out in times of need. You tend to drive your life slowly and meticulously, with great care during stressful changes. You pride yourself on living up to societal expectations, maintaining your health, being polite, being on time. You are a practical and fairly simple person.
Because of your respect for the system and for order, you tend to frown on unnecessary sentiment and misplaced kind gestures. You value strength and self-reliance. You find creativity to often be meaningless and erratic and would rather people just stick with the methods that are proven to work. ISTJs are driven and proactive and easy to be around. You’re the ideal supporter - a good family member, a reliable problem solver. As an ISTJ, you tend to be resistant to new ideas and to new suggestions. You’re firm about your beliefs and when you’ve made up your mind, it’s hard to lure you to the other side. Your ideal romantic partner tends to be the ESTP. Their love for logic, their ability to reflect deeply on things, and their thoughtfulness appeals to you greatly.

-- old
Practical Leaders are serious, focused, and goal-oriented. They think long-term about their life and enjoy developing efficient, procedural systems. They are practical, logical, reasonable, and functionalist. They strive for success and improvement, good for coming up with projects for improvement, and they thrive when they can study and develop themselves. They are objective, impersonal, and result-oriented, and find strong pleasure and satisfaction in overcoming challenges, successfully undertaking a project, or learning a new skill. They are conventional and pro-establishment, and seek confirmed beliefs. They are autonomous and pro-active, and can actively be champions for superior routines and protocols and thoughts on how others or how the world could be improved.
They take on the spider-in-the-web trait to study and control the flow of the group, carefully sitting back and studying how the system works and could work better. They are stable and calm, and great for explaining and making people understand their ideas and their projects. They are self-reflective and take their time to understand their fears and worries, using their knowledge and their thinking to prepare and to equip themselves to deal with scary changes.
They are useful and competitive, quick-learners, and instinctive, seeking to learn and to know as much as possible about their goals and decisions. They can use this information to help others prepare ahead of a project or changes. They often master rules, seeking both to follow rules and to be strategical. They are not uncommon to take risks in business, or to gamble or play in games involving strategy and risk-assessment. They set boundaries and limitations for projects, to help the group stay focused on a project. They tend to have their own recipe for success and happiness, along with rules they follow to achieve this success.

## ESTP - The Practical Explorers
ESTPs are strong to the point of being slightly intimidating. You are outspoken and sociable, driven and business-oriented. You are quick to engage and work with others. You enjoy a good debate and you like to be on the stage, at the center of everything happening. You radiate power to the people around you, you have this energy that says “He can do it.” You tend to have strong beliefs and a strong work-ethic. You tend to express your opinions openly and directly, without holding back. You’re competetive and you like to win. You love to talk freely about your thoughts and to have open, serious discussions with others. You enjoy big or large groups and social settings, where you can express yourself without restraint. You’re an expert at what you do and you value efficiency and productivity highly.
You tend to be quick to get to know and to share your beliefs with others. You like to test people and see what they can and cannot do. You enjoy to share your facts and engaging in logical discussions with others, and while you may struggle with a bit of a temper, you tend to be quick to forgive others. You tend to connect with others unusually quickly, but you connect more about work and about traditions than on an emotional level. You live like a racecar, always forward, often in a fast manner, and it can be difficult for your friends and loved ones to keep track of everything going on in your life. You’re passionate and loud and it’s sometimes hard for you when people push you aside or don’t give you the attention you need.
Because of your need for power and order, you tend to frown on sentiment and kind gestures. You value strength and self-reliance. You find politness to often be an obstacle and would rather people just state their opinions openly. ESTPs are driven and proactive and slightly erratic about their values. You often say and do things you regret, but your friends see this as a part of your direct and honest style. As an ESTP, you tend to be resistant to new ideas and to new suggestions. You believe the idea that people are the most passionate about is always the best one. Your ideal romantic partner tends to be the ISTJ. Their love for tradition, their ability to reflect deeply on things, and their thoughtfulness appeals to you greatly.

-- old
Practical Explorers are playful, enthusiastic, and open-minded. They think short-term about what might or might not happen, anticipating and improvising to solve and fix new problems. They strive for success and improvement, making good coaches, offering feedback, tips, and suggestions to anyone who is interested. They are objective, impersonal, and result-oriented, and find strong pleasure and satisfaction in overcoming challenges, successfully undertaking a project or learning a new skill. They are conventional and pro-establishment, and seek independent beliefs. They are cooperative and helpful, actively refocusing their efforts in order to respond to and adapt to changes in a project.
They are daring, brave, and reflexive, acting quickly when things go wrong. They instinctively follow their fears and their curiosity, listening and adapting to what is within their realm of possibilities. They spread energy and enthusiasm to the people in the group, inspiring people to follow established procedures or routines. They test boundaries and options to find out which job, project, or decision might be the most effective. They study their score and performance, as well as how others are doing, and they come up with ideas for how people can deal with problems on their way.
They calculate, measure, and question things around them, finding immediate ways to obtain rewards and success. They cut corners and take a gamble, testing how much they can get away with. They are easy-going, and live by standards on how to live. They seek awareness, knowledge, and new information, wherever they can find it, energized by the chance to learn something new. They enjoy the practical, the concrete, and focusing on what is realistic.

## ISTP - The Practical Advisors
ISTPs may not seem much, but they are smart, expertful, and practical problem solvers. You are calm and a good listener, methodical and task-oriented. You are fairly quick to engage and work with others. You enjoy a good debate and you like to be around the stage, near the center of everything happening, where you can help make sure everything is perfect. You tend to have a strong urge for new experiences and mastering new skills. You’re actually rather competetive and you like to win by being completely unflappable. You love to talk freely about your thoughts and to have open, serious discussions with others, but you don’t talk unless you feel strongly about the subject. You enjoy smaller or more intimate social settings, with people you trust. There’s really no place like home to you. You’re an expert at what you do and you value efficiency and productivity highly.
You tend to be hard to truly get to know. You like to test people and see what they can and cannot do. You enjoy to share your facts and engaging in logical discussions with others. You tend to connect with others unusually quickly, but you connect more about work and about traditions than on an emotional level. You take things slow and one step at a time, careful not to make any mistakes. You’re passionate but quiet and it’s sometimes hard for you when people push you aside or don’t give you the attention you need.
Because of your need for power and order, you tend to frown on sentiment and kind gestures. You value strength and self-reliance. You find politness to often be an obstacle and would rather people just state their opinions openly. ISTPs are meticulous and take things one step at a time. You rarely speak out unless there is something important to be said, and then you want people to listen. As an ISTP, you tend to be open to new ideas and to new suggestions. You believe the idea that people are the most passionate about is always the best one. Your ideal romantic partner tends to be the ESTJ. Their love for tradition, their ability to reflect deeply on things, and their thoughtfulness appeals to you greatly.

-- old
Practical Advisors are playful, enthusiastic, and open-minded. They think short-term about what might or might not happen, anticipating and improvising to solve and fix new problems. They speculate and they prepare for any eventuality. They study the systems and the functions around them to understand how things work, and they find ways to experiment and test the systems around them. They cut-corners and test boundaries to see what might or might not happen. They study and question power, who has it, and how they use it.
They enjoy challenges and mastering tasks. They are practical, logical, and thrive in the familiar or concrete. They measure, order, and refine procedures and routines to cope with their environment and the world around them. They take the role of the spider-in-the-web, or the teacher, helping people deal with concrete tasks. They are useful and study and prepare ahead before trying something new. They are interested in business, success, and accuracy. They are quick to change and adapt when they realize something is incorrect or problematic.
They sometimes suffer from indecisiveness, juggling many different options for how a tasks should be performed, and avoiding making decisions. They test people’s knowledge and insight in a field, and cooperatively step in to help and to clarify misunderstandings where people fail. They are emotional and sensitive to errors and mistakes, taking their time to fix problems when they emerge.
